# Guitar AI Magic

November 2023

======================================================
## TODO



======================================================
## Follow up

Q: What are these audio transformers available on HF used for? https://huggingface.co/MIT/ast-finetuned-audioset-10-10-0.4593
A: 

Q: Do this tutorial and understand what's going on https://pytorch.org/audio/stable/tutorials/ctc_forced_alignment_api_tutorial.html#preparation
A: 


======================================================
## Done

Q: Understand input embeddings
A: wow super interesting.  embeddings take us from a high dim space to a low dim space and essentially "learn the input" to put it in a high dim space.  makes me wonder if it's possible to feed in the audio wave file instead of mfcc and let the embedding layer learn what the representation is.  In this regard, I think we can consider MFCC to be an audio embedding, a deterministic pre-trained one :)


Q: Add asserts to the note tokenizer
A: ok done.  ensuring string values are (1-6) and fret values are (0-20)

Q: Understand how the current tokenizer works
A: Done.  drew out the token mappings. 

Q: Re-implement a transformer based architecture.  The attention mechanism can be added now or later.
A: ok done. will create another todo for following up on learning the input embedding layer

Q: Understand an audio_segment_mfcc.  
A: Shape (20, 109) where each row represents a coefficient and each column represents a frame.  

Q: Is segmentation necessary?
A: For computational feasability, yes.  Long sequences are infeasible for RNNs and will even be costly for transformers.

Q: Is our tokenizer useful across GP5 files? Robustness as GP5 files scale
A: We'll have to evaluate this as the size of our dataset goes and the preprocessing becomes more sophisticated.

Q: Use a CNN architecture and the MFCC.
A: Actually no.  there's not much of a complexity difference between model architectures and I just learned that for seq2seq tasks, a CNN isn't suitable.  Instead we need to use an RNN or Transformer.  Again since model complexity isn't an issue, let's just go with the transformer based architecture.

Q: Read how audio is forwarded through a transformer NN. we need a refresher on this
A: ok done.  to start, let's use MFCC and a CNN architecture.  a tried and tested approach.  once that works we can revisit the transformer architecture. But let's see if we can even do poor inference with this model architecture.

Q: are there wait durations on each note?
A: no, it's on a per beat basis

Q: Given the integer representation for a measure, can we convert back to our token format?
	
A: Yes, but a more interesting question is what is the output of our program? How much information do we want to return to the user and in what format?

	Since the token format is human readable, although not great, it is fine to work with this representation as a first start to know whether our model is working or not.


Q: Noticed that the first playable measure is repeated three times, can we capture this in the tokenization process?  This will help align the audio and transcription segments.

A: Done, we now tokenize the repeated measures.  Even though there's repeated tokens, this helps with aligning the audio and transcription segments

Q: Given the tokens and audio, build a tiny dataset
A: done, at least in array format for now.

