# Guitar AI Magic

November 2023

======================================================
## TODO

Q: Use a CNN architecture and the MFCC 	
A: 



======================================================
## Follow up

Pre-condition: Between GP5 files, is ur tokenizer flexible enough to compress across and between songs effeciently?

Q: Is our tokenizer useful across GP5 files? Robustness as GP5 files scale

Q: Is segmentation necessary?
	Q: Given an audio waveform, how can we map the timestamp of the measures from ther GP5 file to the mp3?



======================================================
## Done

Q: Read how audio is forwarded through a transformer NN. we need a refresher on this
A: ok done.  to start, let's use MFCC and a CNN architecture.  a tried and tested approach.  once that works we can revisit the transformer architecture. But let's see if we can even do poor inference with this model architecture.

Q: are there wait durations on each note?
A: no, it's on a per beat basis

Q: Given the integer representation for a measure, can we convert back to our token format?
	
A: Yes, but a more interesting question is what is the output of our program? How much information do we want to return to the user and in what format?

	Since the token format is human readable, although not great, it is fine to work with this representation as a first start to know whether our model is working or not.


Q: Noticed that the first playable measure is repeated three times, can we capture this in the tokenization process?  This will help align the audio and transcription segments.

A: Done, we now tokenize the repeated measures.  Even though there's repeated tokens, this helps with aligning the audio and transcription segments

Q: Given the tokens and audio, build a tiny dataset
A: done

